Another one I wanna show you is collect.
This one you're going to use all
the time if you work with streams.
So let's go ahead and make a method,
public static void collectDemo.
So what collectors you typically use
collect on a resulting stream, so
you've done some other operation
it's an intermediate operation
it's giving you like this
resulting stream back.
And then what collect will
do is assign that stream
to a collection of your choice, all right?
So let's take the vegetables and
let's filter it down to
the ones that end with a S.
And then we're going to collect that and
put it in its own new thing, okay?
So we have the veggies we can
say veggies.stream,
.filter and we said v,
v.endsWith s, right?
This will give us a resulting stream.
So we then can say collect.
And inside the collect,
you need to specify, what do you want?
What kind of, collection do you want?
So to do that you'll say Collectors.
And then you can say to and
notice here we got toList, we have toMap,
we have toSet, toUnmodifiableList,
Map and Set, right?
So you can pick what you want.
I'm gonna pick a list and
now this whole thing is a list,
so I would want to store this in a
variable so I can say something like list.
>> All veggies?
>> Not all veggie all
of them in with it is.
>> All veggies.
>> Veggies, veggiesEndingInS.
All right, okay?
And then from that, now I have an actual
collection, cuz before remember
I had a stream, it didn't actually
modify the original collection.
This doesn't modify
the original collection either,
but it gives me a resulting collection
that I now could do whatever I want with.
So what we've done is loop that's
not really a good example.
In this case, you would want to maybe
send this off to something else,
some other method or something like that.
If you just want it to print it so
that we could see it, we could do that.
We're going to use for each aren't we?
We're gonna say System.out::println.
>> Don't you want veggies ending in s for
your print line?
>> Do I need it?
>> For line 66.
>> Do you want to print your veggies?
>> Sorry, you're right.
I used the wrong collection.
Very good.
Alright, let me make sure I'm
calling this from the main.
Alright, collectDemo.
Very nice.
Let's run it.
All right, and look at that peas, green
beans, brussels sprouts, and carrots.
So let's do one more big one.
As you can see,
the stream API is really convenient.
It provides a number of these operations
we've only touched on a few of them.
There's so
many more that we could touch on,
but what's really powerful
about the stream API is
being able to join like a lot of these
intermediate operations together.
So let's make one more method that'll
kind of combine a couple of them so
we can see it like the power of it all.
So we'll say public static void and
we'll call this like multiOperationDemo.
All right, so I wanna say veggies.stream.
All right, that's the first
thing gives us the stream.
And then I want to sort that stream out,
right?
That'll give us an intermediate.
That's an intermediate operation.
So that'll give us that resulting stream.
Now I want to say alright, sorted and
then I want you to filter.
I give it some predicate.
Maybe I want to get all of
the ones that start with a c.
So I can say v.startsWith c.
This also intermediate, so it'll also
return a resulting stream back to me.
From that, let's say I want to use map.
And I wanna say go ahead and
turn all of these things to uppercase.
So we'll say String::upperCase
to uppercase, okay?
Map is also intermediate.
So I get another resulting stream back.
I can say, you know what?
Map it again.
So I can use these multiple
times with different things.
So I can do something like,
I wanna add a word in front of each one,
okay?
So this one will get a little fun.
We can say, all right, take the v.
And what I want you to
do is say v.transform.
Ooh, I know, right?
And then in transform,
this takes another functional interface.
So now I'm doing like
a lambda inside of a lambda.
Gasp, all right?
So now I can say, alright, I called it v.
Let me just say w, right?
W, arrow, and
then I want to say put yummy in front.
Yummy, yeah, with a space.
And then add the w back, right?
Now I have, still that was
intermediate as well, right?
Now I'm gonna go ahead and print it.
I'm getting a little silly now.
So, alright, so
we'll say System.out::println.
All right, so now you can see how,
you could chain these together to do
a bunch of different processing
on an individual collection.
>> Doing it this way almost reminds
me of like writing a SQL query.
>> Does it?
>> Well, a little bit just in terms of
going by table, by table, by table,
joining stuff together.
>> Then what do I do with that data?
Then what do I do with that data?
All right.
So notice the output here is yummy CABBAGE
in caps, and then yummy CARROTS in caps.
So streams are, I don't know,
they're super fun to work with for me.
These are another form of like
functional programming within Java.
So relatively new,
been around for a while, but
still relatively new compared
to the age of the language.